This repository is supposed to be a survey for BAIS students and one I created using html formatting within Github. Within the survey we addressed how to ask respondents questions about their idnetidy in a way to ensure everyone feels represented and not to cause people to feel negatively about themself.
I tried my best to ensure there was ample blank space between questions so as to not overwhelm the surveyee or overlap questions with a drop down menu required. For the required questions, I made it so there was red text with "required" next to the questions that are neccessary, this allows the user to more easily see that they must aanswer the question and does not leave space for interpretation of if the question needs to be answered. I believe the field set formatting was helpful as it shows the user where all of the answers to be selected will be rather than a list of n-numbered items that change from question to question.
Another way I feel that the web form conforms to best practices was the use of radio and checkbox buttons, there were times earlier into building the survey that I had the formats mixed up, or flat wrong. By making the proper adjustments users may only select one option for the year they are finishing, and are able to click on as many BAIS core classes they have taken thus far. I also titled the survey pages with the (current page) of (total pages) and I believe this allows the user to easily see how far along they are with the survey rather than not have a clue or if they could not ssee the page number at the bottom of the webpage.
The biggest way I tried to provide user accessibility was the tooltip with text on the thried page asking about the user's gender. This is a sensitive topic today and by asking the questions, we will make some people uncomfortable. By informing them in the text of the tooltip why we are asking the question, we can ease the user's worries if they have any, and let them know we are trying to combat current and future inequalities within the tech space, so while some may be uncomfortable, we want them to know that is not our goal, and ease those concerns. Another way this was done was through the required questions text, where the questions we need answers to are marked with the red, italic text that shows an answer is required. Some people may have trouble reading the same font against the background but by marking them red and turning them italic, people who may not see as well can tell something is up and look more closely, upon which they know to answer the question.